Language Binds and Divides
==========================

_Written for UQx: Write101x English Grammar and Style, peer review assignment 1 on 15 August 2015_

Language both binds and divides. Not only countries as the famous G.B. Shaw quote says (divided by a common language), but any two groups of people, big or small, down to individual level. It is always fascinating when native speakers go and settle in a different language community. How much their personal languages changes. How much they preserve of the linguistic characteristics of their original community and how much they take over from their new one.

It is true that this double effect is the easiest to spot between speakers of different nations. Take the example of international companies. It is a comforting feeling that if you speak English, you will understand people from offices in various countries: Canada, India, Ireland, Sweden, the U.S. etc. And there is no problem while it is written English. That is, e-mails. Text chatting is a different matter with all the common abbreviations being a little different in scope and frequency from country to country. You start thinking, for example, what the heck _BBS_ can be and when you realise that your chat client's status turns to yellow, you have an inkling.

However, when it comes to speaking, you need some time to get used to language variations. First, for example you cannot really make out the difference between two Indian colleagues speaking in Hindi to each other interspersed with English words, phrases, and sentences; and when they are speaking in English to you. But it can be Swedish English too, with its pronunciation of "proyect" and "yust" (instead of project and just) and typical Swedish intonation that distracts your attention from the topic. I could also mention an instructor whose British English accent was so refreshing in the sea of foreign language English. Then, in a private conversation when he started to relax his queen's English, there was a point where both of us were surprised how incomprehensible Yorkshire accent can be to the uninitiated. These types of difficulties are expected and are widely known.

It is also known that each profession has its own jargon. And each art and area of expertise. Some fields make it even more difficult by using a massive amount of abbreviations. And here comes the interesting part: inside a company, you can have different sets of abbreviations to learn from project to project. Or, what may sometimes be a source of frustration, new meanings to some of the abbreviations you confidently used so far. By the time they regard you as a real project member, you speak in three- and four-letter codes. The strange part is that asking too much about the meaning of these codes may be regarded impolite or quaint. You are supposed to either look them up furtively in the company or project abbreviation finder or ask privately from someone you trust not to look at you in a strange way. But it can go even further. I can remember two engineers working on different subsystems of the same product, one not being able to explain a problem to the other because the two teams has such a different vocabulary for the same functionality.

But what about other communities? Have you ever had the experience that on first year at university you could not catch the meaning of some of your professors' long-long and extremely complex sentences but by the time you were a senior, freshmen had the same difficulty with your sentences? Grammatical complexity and the size of vocabulary increases with education. Also, when you leave your village or small town to work in the city, your friends and relatives may feel that you have become a different person because you speak differently: using different words, sentence structure, intonation. They may say: you speak like this or that celebrity on TV. Not meaning it as a compliment. 

How about the difference between careful and familiar grammar? A fellow teacher of English had a wife from England. Once he noted, "why the hell do we expect students to use proper grammar when even the native speakers don't care? Take my father-in-law as an example, it is only by accident that he does not violate the most basic rules we teach to a beginner: he keeps saying 'he don't' and 'I doesn't'. Crazy." Some students being aware of this discrepancy did ask us: why do we have to learn the rules when they don't know it? Then, of course we had to explain: they do know the rules but familiar English, the one spoken in the home, is governed by convention. And this convention would be more difficult to teach and learn. When these people have to use English in a formal environment, they swap to "standard English" or into a more careful English, the same way as you don elegant clothing when going to an elegant place or event. At least, this is what we wanted to believe to preserve the _raison d'être_ of our profession.

An important difference. Foreign learners of English tend to be obsessed with grammar. Especially those, in whose countries language teaching did not sever its strong ties to medieval Latin teaching or where the language is grammatically heavy, that is, you cannot convey your meaning without using the grammar properly. Furthermore, various language communities are tolerant to ungrammatical expressions to different degrees. In some, only impeccable grammar is accepted and if you make the slightest grammatical mistake, you are looked upon as a country bumpkin. Very good grammar in casual spoken English is often a sign of a foreign speaker. The other such telltale sign is register. Language learners, especially the ones who learn the language in their home country and mainly from text books, tend to speak a more formal and more or less dated version of the language. When Russians write English, it often looks like Victorian prose with the long and heavily constructed sentences or legal English because of the _thereof_s and _herewith_s.
