The Royal Order
===============

The name, in itself, is an interesting one. I did not meet this expression before this course, even though I studied some linguistics at university. We always had the term without "royal", plain "order of adjectives". And I could not even find a credible explanation on the net either: why royal? (Two anecdotal examples: Queen's English has to have a Royal order, order of importance just like in a royal procession.) 

And then, how do you meet it first? At school. While learning English. Foreign language learners of English linguistics usually dutifully learn it by heart and do the language drills and tests to prove they have internalised it, not much thinking about it: just another rule to know. By hindsight, it is amazing we did not ask the logical questions: does it exist in our mother tongue too? Is it different from English? I've tried a couple of searches for this effect too, but no luck. Probably, it is left to the linguistic intuition of the users in my language community. The reason of course can also be that my native language is not often taught to foreigners. And even those who learn it, have very similar language intuitions to ours.

One more attempt: what about translating some examples from English to my mother tongue and checking if the natural order is the same. I have used the examples I found [here](http://grammar.ccc.commnet.edu/grammar/adjective_order.htm). All the translations sounded just as good in my language as the original phrases in English. We also have the adjectives before the noun. And then a negative test: mixed up order sounded just as weird as in English. Taking into consideration that my native language is not even an Indo-European language, but a European one, not bad.

So, why do we have to learn this rule? My best guess is that when it comes to and's and commas, it is useful to be able to analyse whether the adjectives are of the same or different categories. Probably, for learners who have adjectives after the nouns too, or in any other arrangement, it can be a great help too to have the building instructions to the noun phrase. Language awareness helps in editing your writing or in explaining why it sounds better the way it does.
