The Guide's Story
-----------------

There was a man who did not know what to do with his life. He went
here and there and in the end he knew his region good enough so he was
able to start guiding travellers and merchants through the land so that
they could find the fastest and safest way or the most scenic routes.

One day he was guiding a doll maker who was making sketches of girls
and women to use them for ideas to create new dolls. The guide helped
him look up several places and showed him where he can make his
portrait sketches without becoming too conspicuous or a target of
suspicion.

The doll maker decided to open up shop in one of the towns. In the same
town also lived an old mage who ordered some dolls to make them into
golems as servants for himself.

The guide became the apprentice of both masters and in a couple of
years he was able to make is own golem. The golem became a fierce,
independent-minded, but faithful servant to her master. She learned
both to wield the sword and to master the sciences. In the eyes of the
mage, the guide was too lenient a master, but it seems the guide
wanted more like a partner than a servant. After she became
knowledgeable enough, they made their decisions together and even
created small girl-golems, who behaved like a mixture of servants,
children, and imps.

After a while, a war broke out between their country and one of the
neighbouring ones. The guide enlisted as a scout and was very good at
it. His golem-partner stayed at home with the little ones and started
to study the art of war and politics from books. After a while, her
advice was accepted when the defence of the town had to be organised
and strengthened. She was even invited to neighbouring towns and city
to help them with their advice.

Her master, in the mean time, became an assistant to the army general
protecting the country from the enemy who kept attacking in spite of
their losses suffered previously.

Then, their came a temporary peace, which was proclaimed to be
"eternal", but everybody knew better and both realms prepared for
the new war. In the second phase of the war, the guide became an
important officer and could take his golems with him and had
his own tent. The combined wisdom of the two, they were real soul and
intellectual mates by then, made them extremely successful and as the
war never seemed to want to subside, he finally found himself as the
marshal of the whole army.

When they at long last defeated the enemy, their own king wanted more
and they conquered the neighbouring country, and integrated the two
armies into one, and went on conquering more and more lands.

As it turned out, the northern kingdom did the same, which lead to two
huge realms facing each other in more and more devastating battles. In
the end, no one really wanted the war but the two kings, but everyone
was too scared to say anything. The time for the final battle had
arrived. The combined army of the southern empire faced that of the
northern.

The northern army was lead by the queen, the wife of the by now ailing
northern king. It seems both generals knew what was coming, so
they secretly met and it turned out they understood each other quite
well. They decided to sacrifice a few to save the two realms: the
queen assassinated her husband and the guide, with the help of his
golems killed their king and the most war-thirsty of the advisers.

The queen arranged the kingship to be inherited by her trustworthy
nephew and she went north into exile to an island surrounded by a huge
frozen lake. She became the Snow Queen.

The guide helped a group of wise nobles and scholar-mages to gain the
governance of the realm, and after that went into exile,
too. Unfortunately, he had to leave his golems behind because the
nobles were too much afraid of his power and influence. Before he
left, they managed to locate a safe and picturesque corner of the
realm for them to live peacefully.
